Welcome back.
Let's do a fun little exercise.
That is a little bit tricky as well.
Let's say I have a function called weird and this function weird has a height of 50.
Where do you think this height property or height variable is located.
Let's run this and see what happens.
I'm going to run weird get undefined because it's not returning anything but if I return height I get
50 OK but is height being created in the variable environment of weird.
Well no and that's because javascript is a little bit weird here.
This is actually called leakage of global the tables because what javascript does underneath the hood
is that it looks at height.
It says this isn't in my nothing's been declared.
I haven't seen a var or a concert or a left keyword.
So I don't have it.
Those keywords tell javascript to put those in our variable environment but it's not there.
So it's going to go up the scope chain to the global environment and says hey is there such thing as
a height and the global environment is going to say no I don't have it but it's not throwing an error
is it.
And that's because the global environment actually sees that this doesn't exist and we'll create it
for you just as it's looking up the scope chain.
Now don't you think that's weird.
That doesn't make any sense right.
This is something that in the past with JavaScript you could do and it caused a lot of problems.
So now we have something like use strict that if I added to the top of a page you may have seen things
like this.
You strict was introduced as a way to prevent javascript for doing these weird unpredictable edge cases
because javascript was written by a programmer and there's no such thing as a perfect programming language
or a perfect program and you strict allows us to avoid these pitfalls that shouldn't happen and you
see over here as soon as I used you strict it's going to say height is not defined because it's going
to go up the scope chain and it's going to say no you've never really declared this variable.
I have no idea what you're talking about.
So I have to use variable or let or concept to declare that variable.
All right.
JavaScript is weird.
Here's another one let's say we have a variable call it.
Hey hey another creative name by me and in here this variable will have a function but instead of an
anonymous function it's going to have a name let's call it doodle and this function well let's say do
something.
It's not really doing anything is it.
Now if I run Hey hey and actually licious console lock here or just return.
Hey hey if I run this well that's expected but what if I run.
What do you think will happen take a guess well if I run this I get a reference error.
What does that mean.
That means it's nowhere to be seen in the scope chain.
This is because the doodle function is actually enclosed in its own scope doodle gets actually added
to its own execution context variable environment very weird right.
But that's a little gotcha over here where we can't access it on the global scope.
We can only access it.
All right.
I hope that didn't confuse you too much.
Just fun little tricks to confuse your programming friends.
All right.
I'll see you in the next one.
Bye bye.